.TH MU2EDAQ\-RESOURCE\-MANAGER 8 "2026-03-19" "1.0.0" "Mu2e DAQ"
.SH NAME
mu2edaq\-resource\-manager \- Mu2e DAQ hardware resource reservation server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B python3 server/mu2e\-resource\-manager.py
.RB [ \-\-host
.IR HOST ]
.RB [ \-\-port
.IR PORT ]
.RB [ \-\-config
.IR FILE ]
.RB [ \-\-state
.IR FILE ]
.PP
.B scripts/start_server.sh
.RB [ \-d | \-\-daemon ]
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.RI [ "server options" ]
.PP
.B scripts/stop_server.sh
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mu2edaq\-resource\-manager
is a FastAPI-based HTTP server that manages hardware resource reservations
for the Mu2e data acquisition system at Fermilab.
It tracks shared DAQ hardware (DTCs, CFOs, ROCs, EventBuilders) distributed
across multiple nodes and provides an atomic reserve/release API so that
multiple DAQ processes can coordinate exclusive access without conflicts.
.PP
Resources are defined statically in a YAML configuration file.
Reservation state is persisted to a JSON file and restored on restart,
so in-progress reservations survive server restarts.
.PP
All reservation operations are all-or-nothing: if any resource in a request
is unavailable or does not exist, the entire request is rejected and no
resources are modified.
.PP
A web UI is served at
.B /
when the
.I web/
directory is present.
Interactive API documentation (Swagger UI) is available at
.BR /docs .
.SH RUNNING
The
.B scripts/start_server.sh
wrapper launches the server using the project virtual environment.
By default it runs in the foreground; pass
.B \-d
or
.B \-\-daemon
(or set
.BR RM_DAEMON )
to run detached in the background.
In daemon mode a PID file is written (default
.IR run/resource-manager.pid )
and output is redirected to a log file (default
.IR run/resource-manager.log ).
Starting a second daemon while one is already running is refused.
Any further arguments are forwarded to
.B server/mu2e\-resource\-manager.py
and override the environment-derived values.
.PP
The
.B scripts/stop_server.sh
wrapper stops a daemon-mode server. It reads the PID file, sends
.B SIGTERM
for a graceful shutdown, and escalates to
.B SIGKILL
if the process has not exited within
.B RM_STOP_TIMEOUT
seconds (default 10), then removes the PID file.
.PP
Both wrappers and the server read a
.I .env
file in the project root when present; see
.BR ENVIRONMENT .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-host " HOST"
IP address or hostname to bind.
Default:
.B 0.0.0.0
(all interfaces).
Can also be set via the
.B RM_HOST
environment variable.
.TP
.BI \-\-port " PORT"
TCP port to listen on.
Default:
.BR 8080 .
Can also be set via the
.B RM_PORT
environment variable.
.TP
.BI \-\-config " FILE"
Path to the YAML resource configuration file.
Default:
.IR config/resources.yaml .
Can also be set via the
.B RM_CONFIG
environment variable.
.TP
.BI \-\-state " FILE"
Path to the JSON state file used to persist reservation state across restarts.
Default:
.IR config/state.json .
Can also be set via the
.B RM_STATE
environment variable.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B RM_HOST
Default bind host (overridden by
.BR \-\-host ).
.TP
.B RM_PORT
Default bind port (overridden by
.BR \-\-port ).
.TP
.B RM_CONFIG
Default config file path (overridden by
.BR \-\-config ).
.TP
.B RM_STATE
Default state file path (overridden by
.BR \-\-state ).
.TP
.B RM_DAEMON
If set to a truthy value (1, true, yes, on), start in daemon mode without
.BR \-\-daemon .
.TP
.B RM_RUN_DIR
Directory for the daemon PID file and log.
Default:
.IR run/ .
.TP
.B RM_PIDFILE
Daemon PID file path.
Default:
.IR $RM_RUN_DIR/resource-manager.pid .
.TP
.B RM_LOG
Daemon log file path.
Default:
.IR $RM_RUN_DIR/resource-manager.log .
.TP
.B RM_STOP_TIMEOUT
Seconds
.B stop_server.sh
waits for a graceful shutdown before sending
.BR SIGKILL .
Default:
.BR 10 .
.TP
.B RM_VENV
Python virtual environment directory used by the wrapper scripts.
Default:
.IR venv/ .
.TP
.B RM_ENV_FILE
Path to the
.I .env
file loaded by the scripts and the server.
Default:
.I .env
in the project root.
A variable already set in the environment is not overridden by
.IR .env .
.SH API ENDPOINTS
.TP
.B GET /api/resources
List all resources.
Accepts an optional
.B ?status=available|reserved
query parameter.
.TP
.B GET /api/resources/{class}/{name}/{enum}
Get a specific resource by its three-part identifier.
Returns 404 if not found.
.TP
.B POST /api/reserve
Reserve one or more resources for a client.
Body: JSON object with
.B client_id
(string) and
.B resources
(array of
.BR {resource_class,\ name,\ enumerator} ).
Returns 409 if any resource is unavailable.
.TP
.B POST /api/release
Release one or more resources owned by a client.
Body: same structure as
.BR /api/reserve .
Returns 400 if a resource is not reserved or is owned by a different client.
.TP
.B DELETE /api/clients/{client_id}/resources
Release all resources currently held by
.IR client_id .
.TP
.B GET /api/status
Return a summary with total, available, and reserved resource counts.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I config/resources.yaml
Static hardware resource definitions.
Edit to add or remove resources; restart the server to apply changes.
.TP
.I config/state.json
Persistent reservation state.
Written atomically via a temporary file.
Do not edit by hand.
.TP
.I run/resource-manager.pid
PID file written when running in daemon mode.
.TP
.I run/resource-manager.log
Captured stdout/stderr of the daemon-mode server.
.TP
.I .env
Optional environment overrides read by the scripts and the server.
Copy
.I example.env
to
.I .env
and edit.
Not tracked in version control.
.SH EXAMPLES
Start with defaults (foreground):
.PP
.RS
.nf
\&./scripts/start_server.sh
.fi
.RE
.PP
Start in the background as a daemon and later stop it:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\&./scripts/start_server.sh --daemon
\&./scripts/stop_server.sh
.fi
.RE
.PP
Start on a specific interface and port:
.PP
.RS
.nf
python3 server/mu2e-resource-manager.py --host 127.0.0.1 --port 9090
.fi
.RE
.PP
Override the port via a forwarded flag:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\&./scripts/start_server.sh --port 9090
.fi
.RE
.PP
Start with a custom config:
.PP
.RS
.nf
RM_CONFIG=/etc/mu2edaq/resources.yaml ./scripts/start_server.sh
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bootstrap.sh (1),
.BR start_server.sh (8),
.BR stop_server.sh (8),
.BR rm\-cli (1),
.BR rm_cli.py (1),
.BR rm\-demo (1),
.BR demo_client.py (1)
