.TH START_SERVER.SH 8 "2026-05-28" "1.0.0" "Mu2e DAQ"
.SH NAME
start_server.sh \- start the Mu2e DAQ resource manager server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B scripts/start_server.sh
.RB [ \-d | \-\-daemon ]
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.RI [ "server options" ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B start_server.sh
launches the Mu2e DAQ resource manager server using the project's Python
virtual environment.
By default the server runs in the foreground and is stopped with Ctrl-C.
With
.B \-d
or
.B \-\-daemon
(or
.BR RM_DAEMON )
the server is detached and runs in the background: its PID is written to a PID
file and its output is redirected to a log file, both under
.BR RM_RUN_DIR .
Starting a second daemon while one is already running is refused.
.PP
Any arguments other than the options below are forwarded to the server
.RB ( server/mu2e\-resource\-manager.py )
and override the environment-derived values, so the priority is
commandline over environment over
.IR .env .
Arguments following a
.B \-\-
separator are forwarded verbatim, which is the way to reach server options
that clash with this wrapper's own (for example
.BR \-\-help ).
.PP
The virtual environment must already exist; run
.BR bootstrap.sh (1)
first.
The script reads a
.I .env
file in the project root when present (see
.BR ENVIRONMENT ).
A daemon-mode server is stopped with
.BR stop_server.sh (8).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-daemon
Run as a background daemon. Writes a PID file and log under
.B RM_RUN_DIR
and refuses to start if a daemon is already running.
Equivalent to setting
.BR RM_DAEMON=1 .
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a usage summary and exit. Works even before the virtual environment
has been created.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B RM_HOST
Bind host. Default:
.BR 0.0.0.0 .
.TP
.B RM_PORT
Bind port. Default:
.BR 8080 .
.TP
.B RM_CONFIG
Resource definition YAML. Default:
.IR config/resources.yaml .
.TP
.B RM_STATE
Reservation state JSON. Default:
.IR config/state.json .
.TP
.B RM_DAEMON
Start in daemon mode when set to a truthy value (1, true, yes, on).
.TP
.B RM_RUN_DIR
Directory for the daemon PID file and log. Default:
.IR run/ .
.TP
.B RM_PIDFILE
Daemon PID file path. Default:
.IR $RM_RUN_DIR/resource-manager.pid .
.TP
.B RM_LOG
Daemon log file path. Default:
.IR $RM_RUN_DIR/resource-manager.log .
.TP
.B RM_VENV
Python virtual environment directory. Default:
.IR venv/ .
.TP
.B RM_ENV_FILE
Path to the
.I .env
file read for the variables above. Default:
.I .env
in the project root.
A variable already set in the environment is not overridden by
.IR .env .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I venv/
Virtual environment whose interpreter runs the server.
.TP
.I run/resource-manager.pid
PID file written in daemon mode.
.TP
.I run/resource-manager.log
Captured stdout/stderr of the daemon-mode server.
.TP
.I .env
Optional environment overrides read at startup.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Daemon started successfully. In foreground mode the script replaces itself
with the server process, so its exit status is the server's.
.TP
.B 1
The virtual environment was not found, or a daemon is already running.
.SH EXAMPLES
Start in the foreground:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\&./scripts/start_server.sh
.fi
.RE
.PP
Start as a background daemon:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\&./scripts/start_server.sh --daemon
.fi
.RE
.PP
Override the port via a forwarded flag:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\&./scripts/start_server.sh --port 9000
.fi
.RE
.PP
Start with a custom config:
.PP
.RS
.nf
RM_CONFIG=/etc/mu2edaq/resources.yaml ./scripts/start_server.sh
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show the server's own options:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\&./scripts/start_server.sh -- --help
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR stop_server.sh (8),
.BR bootstrap.sh (1),
.BR mu2edaq\-resource\-manager (8)
