.TH STOP_SERVER.SH 8 "2026-05-28" "1.0.0" "Mu2e DAQ"
.SH NAME
stop_server.sh \- stop the daemon-mode Mu2e DAQ resource manager server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B scripts/stop_server.sh
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B stop_server.sh
stops a Mu2e DAQ resource manager server that was started in daemon mode by
.BR start_server.sh .
It reads the PID file written at startup, sends
.B SIGTERM
to request a graceful shutdown, and waits for the process to exit.
If the process is still running after
.B RM_STOP_TIMEOUT
seconds, the script escalates to
.B SIGKILL
and then removes the PID file.
.PP
The script handles the common edge cases without error: if no PID file exists
the server is reported as not running in daemon mode; an empty PID file is
removed; and a PID file referring to a process that is no longer running is
treated as stale and removed.
A foreground server is not affected by this script and should be stopped with
Ctrl-C in its own terminal.
.PP
The script takes no command-line options; its behavior is controlled through
environment variables, which may also be supplied via a
.I .env
file in the project root (see
.BR ENVIRONMENT ).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B RM_RUN_DIR
Directory containing the PID file.
Default:
.IR run/ .
.TP
.B RM_PIDFILE
Path to the PID file written by
.BR start_server.sh .
Default:
.IR $RM_RUN_DIR/resource-manager.pid .
.TP
.B RM_STOP_TIMEOUT
Seconds to wait for a graceful shutdown before sending
.BR SIGKILL .
Default:
.BR 10 .
.TP
.B RM_ENV_FILE
Path to the
.I .env
file read for the variables above.
Default:
.I .env
in the project root.
A variable already set in the environment is not overridden by
.IR .env .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
The server was stopped, or no running daemon was found.
.TP
.B 1
The process could not be stopped.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I run/resource-manager.pid
PID file read to identify the running daemon; removed on successful stop.
.TP
.I run/resource-manager.log
Daemon log file (written by the server, not modified by this script).
.SH EXAMPLES
Stop the running daemon:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\&./scripts/stop_server.sh
.fi
.RE
.PP
Allow more time for a graceful shutdown before forcing it:
.PP
.RS
.nf
RM_STOP_TIMEOUT=30 ./scripts/stop_server.sh
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR start_server.sh (8),
.BR bootstrap.sh (1),
.BR mu2edaq\-resource\-manager (8)
