.TH BOOTSTRAP.SH 1 "2026-05-28" "1.0.0" "Mu2e DAQ"
.SH NAME
bootstrap.sh \- set up the Mu2e DAQ resource manager Python environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B scripts/bootstrap.sh
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bootstrap.sh
prepares the Python environment needed to run the Mu2e DAQ resource manager.
It creates a virtual environment, upgrades
.BR pip ,
and installs the project dependencies listed in
.IR requirements.txt .
.PP
If the virtual environment already exists it is reused, so the script is safe
to re-run at any time to pull in updated dependencies.
The script requires Python 3.9 or newer and aborts if an older interpreter is
selected.
.PP
The script takes no command-line options; its behavior is controlled entirely
through environment variables, which may also be supplied via a
.I .env
file in the project root (see
.BR ENVIRONMENT ).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B PYTHON
Interpreter used to create the virtual environment.
Default:
.BR python3 .
.TP
.B RM_VENV
Directory in which the virtual environment is created.
Default:
.IR venv/ .
.TP
.B RM_ENV_FILE
Path to the
.I .env
file read for the variables above.
Default:
.I .env
in the project root.
A variable already set in the environment is not overridden by
.IR .env .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
The virtual environment was created (or reused) and dependencies installed.
.TP
.B 1
The selected interpreter was missing or older than Python 3.9.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I requirements.txt
List of Python dependencies installed into the virtual environment.
.TP
.I venv/
Default location of the created virtual environment.
.TP
.I .env
Optional environment overrides read by the script.
.SH EXAMPLES
Create the environment with defaults:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\&./scripts/bootstrap.sh
.fi
.RE
.PP
Use a specific interpreter and a custom environment directory:
.PP
.RS
.nf
PYTHON=python3.11 RM_VENV=/opt/mu2edaq/venv ./scripts/bootstrap.sh
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR stop_server.sh (8),
.BR mu2edaq\-resource\-manager (8)
