.TH DEMO_CLIENT.PY 1 "2026-03-19" "1.0.0" "Mu2e DAQ"
.SH NAME
demo_client.py \- Python demonstration client for the Mu2e DAQ resource manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B python3 client/demo_client.py
.RI [ BASE_URL ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B demo_client.py
is a Python script that exercises the full client workflow of the
Mu2e DAQ resource manager.
It is the Python counterpart of
.BR rm\-demo (1)
and serves as both a verification tool and a usage example for the
resource manager HTTP API.
.PP
The demo connects to the server and walks through the following steps:
.IP 1. 4
Check server status.
.IP 2.
List all resources.
.IP 3.
List available resources.
.IP 4.
Reserve up to two available resources using client ID
.BR python-demo-client .
.IP 5.
Attempt a conflicting reservation from
.B another-client
(expected to return HTTP 409).
.IP 6.
Attempt to reserve a non-existent resource
.RB ( BOGUS:FAKE:99 )
(expected to return HTTP 409).
.IP 7.
Display the current mixed state of all resources.
.IP 8.
Release the resources reserved in step 4.
.IP 9.
Display the final resource state and server summary.
.PP
Each step is printed with a numbered header.
Expected errors (steps 5 and 6) are labelled and do not cause the script
to exit with a non-zero status.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I BASE_URL
Base URL of the resource manager server, e.g.\&
.BR http://mu2edaq01.fnal.gov:8080 .
Default:
.BR http://localhost:8080 .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Demo completed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Cannot connect to the server, or an unexpected reservation failure occurred.
.SH EXAMPLES
Run against the default local server:
.PP
.RS
.nf
python3 client/demo_client.py
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run against a remote server:
.PP
.RS
.nf
python3 client/demo_client.py http://mu2edaq01.fnal.gov:8080
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rm_cli.py (1),
.BR rm\-demo (1),
.BR mu2edaq\-resource\-manager (8)
