.TH RM\-CLI 1 "2026-03-19" "1.0.0" "Mu2e DAQ"
.SH NAME
rm\-cli \- C++ command-line interface for the Mu2e DAQ resource manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rm\-cli
.RB [ \-\-host
.IR HOST ]
.RB [ \-\-port
.IR PORT ]
.I COMMAND
.RI [ args... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rm\-cli
is a compiled C++ command-line client for the Mu2e DAQ resource manager
server.
It provides the same subcommands as the Python
.BR rm_cli.py (1)
client and is suitable for use in contexts where Python is unavailable or
a statically linked binary is preferred.
.PP
The client communicates with the server over HTTP using libcurl and parses
JSON responses using nlohmann/json.
Resources are identified by a three-part key:
.IR class \ name \ enumerator
(e.g.,
.BR "DTC DTC 01" ).
When reserving or releasing multiple resources, triples are given
consecutively on the command line.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-host " HOST"
Resource manager server hostname or IP address.
If unset (and
.B RM_HOST
is not set), the server is located via UDP broadcast discovery, falling back to
.B localhost
if none responds.
.TP
.BI \-\-port " PORT"
Resource manager server port.
Default: the discovered port, otherwise
.BR 8080 .
.TP
.BI \-\-token " TOKEN"
Bearer token for state-changing commands
.RB ( reserve ", " release ", " release\-all ).
Can also be set via the
.B RM_TOKEN
environment variable.
Read-only commands do not require it.
.TP
.BI \-\-who " NAME"
Optional operator annotation recorded on
.B reserve
and shown in the "Who" column.
Can also be set via the
.B RM_WHO
environment variable.
.TP
.BI \-\-discovery\-port " PORT"
UDP port used for broadcast discovery.
Default:
.BR 8088 .
Can also be set via the
.B RM_DISCOVERY_PORT
environment variable.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-discover
Do not attempt broadcast discovery when
.B \-\-host
is unset; use
.B localhost
instead.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B list
List all known resources.
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-status available|reserved
Filter output to only resources with the given status.
.RE
.TP
.BI "get " "CLASS NAME ENUM"
Display a single resource identified by its class, name, and enumerator.
Exits with status 1 if the resource does not exist.
.TP
.BI "reserve " "CLASS NAME ENUM " [CLASS NAME ENUM...]
Reserve one or more resources for the authenticated principal (from the bearer
token).
Resources are specified as consecutive triples.
The operation is all-or-nothing: if any resource is already reserved or
does not exist, no resources are reserved and the command exits with status 1.
Conflicting resources are displayed on failure.
The optional
.B \-\-who
annotation is recorded with the reservation.
.TP
.BI "release " "CLASS NAME ENUM " [CLASS NAME ENUM...]
Release one or more resources held by the authenticated principal (operators
may release any).
The operation is all-or-nothing.
Exits with status 1 if any resource is not reserved by the caller.
.TP
.BI "release\-all " CLIENT_ID
Release every resource owned by
.IR CLIENT_ID .
A non-operator may only target its own principal; an operator may target any
client. Reports the number of resources released.
.TP
.B status
Display a summary of total, available, and reserved resource counts.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Command error (resource conflict, not found, argument error, server
unreachable, etc.).
.SH BUILDING
.B rm\-cli
is built with CMake alongside the
.B librmclient
static library:
.PP
.RS
.nf
cmake -B build -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
cmake --build build
.fi
.RE
.PP
Dependencies: libcurl (system), nlohmann/json (fetched automatically).
.SH EXAMPLES
List all resources:
.PP
.RS
.nf
rm-cli list
.fi
.RE
.PP
List only reserved resources:
.PP
.RS
.nf
rm-cli list --status reserved
.fi
.RE
.PP
Query a specific resource:
.PP
.RS
.nf
rm-cli get DTC DTC 01
.fi
.RE
.PP
Reserve a DTC and a CFO together, annotated with an operator label:
.PP
.RS
.nf
rm-cli --who Andrew reserve DTC DTC 01 CFO CFO 01
.fi
.RE
.PP
Release a specific resource:
.PP
.RS
.nf
rm-cli release DTC DTC 01
.fi
.RE
.PP
Release all resources held by a client:
.PP
.RS
.nf
rm-cli release-all partition1
.fi
.RE
.PP
Connect to a remote server:
.PP
.RS
.nf
rm-cli --host mu2edaq01.fnal.gov --port 8080 status
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rm_cli.py (1),
.BR rm\-demo (1),
.BR mu2edaq\-resource\-manager (8)
