.TH RM\-DEMO 1 "2026-03-19" "1.0.0" "Mu2e DAQ"
.SH NAME
rm\-demo \- C++ demonstration client for the Mu2e DAQ resource manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rm\-demo
.RI [ HOST
.RI [ PORT ]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rm\-demo
is a compiled C++ program that exercises the full client workflow of the
Mu2e DAQ resource manager.
It is intended as a verification tool and usage example for the
.B librmclient
C++ library.
.PP
The demo walks through the following steps in sequence:
.IP 1. 4
Check server status.
.IP 2.
List all resources.
.IP 3.
List available resources.
.IP 4.
Reserve up to two available resources using client ID
.BR cpp-demo-client .
.IP 5.
Attempt a conflicting reservation from
.B another-client
(expected to fail with a conflict error).
.IP 6.
Attempt to reserve a non-existent resource
.RB ( BOGUS:FAKE:99 )
(expected to fail with a not-found error).
.IP 7.
Display the current mixed state of all resources.
.IP 8.
Release the resources reserved in step 4.
.IP 9.
Display the final resource state and confirm all resources are available.
.PP
Each step is printed with a numbered header.
Expected errors (steps 5 and 6) are clearly labelled and do not cause
the demo to exit with a non-zero status.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I HOST
Hostname or IP address of the resource manager server.
Default:
.BR localhost .
.TP
.I PORT
TCP port of the resource manager server.
Default:
.BR 8080 .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Demo completed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Cannot reach the server, or an unexpected failure occurred during
reservation or release.
.SH BUILDING
.B rm\-demo
is built with CMake:
.PP
.RS
.nf
cmake -B build -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
cmake --build build
.fi
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
Run against the default local server:
.PP
.RS
.nf
rm-demo
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run against a remote server:
.PP
.RS
.nf
rm-demo mu2edaq01.fnal.gov 8080
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rm\-cli (1),
.BR demo_client.py (1),
.BR mu2edaq\-resource\-manager (8)
