.TH RM_CLI.PY 1 "2026-03-19" "1.0.0" "Mu2e DAQ"
.SH NAME
rm_cli.py \- Python command-line interface for the Mu2e DAQ resource manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B python3 cli/rm_cli.py
.RB [ \-\-host
.IR HOST ]
.RB [ \-\-port
.IR PORT ]
.I COMMAND
.RI [ args... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rm_cli.py
is a Python command-line client for the Mu2e DAQ resource manager server.
It provides subcommands to list, query, reserve, and release hardware
resources, and to check overall server status.
.PP
Resources are identified by a three-part key:
.IR class \ name \ enumerator
(e.g.,
.BR "DTC DTC 01" ).
When reserving or releasing multiple resources, triples are given
consecutively on the command line.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-host " HOST"
Resource manager server hostname or IP address.
If unset (and
.B RM_HOST
is not set), the server is located via UDP broadcast discovery, falling back to
.B localhost
if none responds.
.TP
.BI \-\-port " PORT"
Resource manager server port.
Default: the discovered port, otherwise
.BR 8080 .
.TP
.BI \-\-token " TOKEN"
Bearer token for state-changing commands
.RB ( reserve ", " release ", " release\-all ).
Can also be set via the
.B RM_TOKEN
environment variable.
Read-only commands do not require it.
.TP
.BI \-\-discovery\-port " PORT"
UDP port used for broadcast discovery.
Default:
.BR 8088 .
Can also be set via the
.B RM_DISCOVERY_PORT
environment variable.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-discover
Do not attempt broadcast discovery when
.B \-\-host
is unset; use
.B localhost
instead.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B list
List all known resources.
.RS
.TP
.BI \-\-status " available" | reserved
Filter output to only resources with the given status.
.RE
.TP
.BI "get " "CLASS NAME ENUM"
Display a single resource identified by its class, name, and enumerator.
Exits with status 1 if the resource does not exist.
.TP
.BI "reserve " "CLASS NAME ENUM " [CLASS NAME ENUM...]
Reserve one or more resources for the authenticated principal (from the bearer
token).
Resources are specified as consecutive triples.
The operation is all-or-nothing: if any resource is already reserved or
does not exist, no resources are reserved and the command exits with status 1.
.RS
.TP
.BI \-\-who " NAME"
Optional operator annotation recorded with the reservation and shown in the
"Who" column. Can also be set via the
.B RM_WHO
environment variable.
.RE
.TP
.BI "release " "CLASS NAME ENUM " [CLASS NAME ENUM...]
Release one or more resources held by the authenticated principal (operators
may release any).
The operation is all-or-nothing.
Exits with status 1 if any resource is not reserved by the caller.
.TP
.BI "release\-all " CLIENT_ID
Release every resource owned by
.IR CLIENT_ID .
A non-operator may only target its own principal; an operator may target any
client.
.TP
.B status
Display a summary of total, available, and reserved resource counts.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Command error (resource conflict, not found, server unreachable, etc.).
.SH EXAMPLES
List all resources:
.PP
.RS
.nf
python3 cli/rm_cli.py list
.fi
.RE
.PP
List only available resources:
.PP
.RS
.nf
python3 cli/rm_cli.py list --status available
.fi
.RE
.PP
Query a specific resource:
.PP
.RS
.nf
python3 cli/rm_cli.py get DTC DTC 01
.fi
.RE
.PP
Reserve a single DTC:
.PP
.RS
.nf
python3 cli/rm_cli.py reserve DTC DTC 01
.fi
.RE
.PP
Reserve a DTC and a CFO together, annotated with an operator label:
.PP
.RS
.nf
python3 cli/rm_cli.py reserve --who Andrew DTC DTC 01 CFO CFO 01
.fi
.RE
.PP
Release a specific resource:
.PP
.RS
.nf
python3 cli/rm_cli.py release DTC DTC 01
.fi
.RE
.PP
Release all resources held by a client:
.PP
.RS
.nf
python3 cli/rm_cli.py release-all partition1
.fi
.RE
.PP
Connect to a remote server:
.PP
.RS
.nf
python3 cli/rm_cli.py --host mu2edaq01.fnal.gov --port 8080 status
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rm\-cli (1),
.BR mu2edaq\-resource\-manager (8)
